Concrete structures, as the most popular construction form, endure cracks that are induced by shrinkage, erosion and service loadings. The cracks, once formed, impose severe threat to the durability, safety and service life of the infrastructures. Timely identification on the cracks and necessary maintenance are required in the asset management sector to safeguard the society.
The conventional way of checking for cracks is human-based system where trained professionals examine the concrete structure for any visible crack on the surface. The crack detection in practice is thus subjective and highly relies on experience. Although this approach is acceptable but not very efficient as the officer can only inspect structures that are accessible to them. To overcome these problems, Image Processing Techniques (ITP) was proposed over time that can digitally detect cracks through imaging without manual interference. However, the images obtained are dependent on the illumination of surrounding area. The distortion in the image affects its quality and demands for more rigorous method for efficient crack detection. 
This research aims to address the challenges in current automated imagery crack detection by innovative use of deep-learning algorithm for pixel-by-pixel crack detection in concrete. The proposed algorithm will detect cracks after filtering the images of any distortion caused by water marks and handwriting, giving results with pixel level precision in fast and efficient manner. 
The research also aims to quantify the cracks in terms of crack length, crack width and crack angle. The relationship between crack width and crack opening displacement (COD) will determine the propagation of the cracks and will serve as a sensor for structural health monitoring. 
